---
title: Backup flag attack via MP_PRIO messages
abbrev: 
docname: draft-mptcp-backup-flag-attack-01
date: 2017-08-05
category: exp

ipr: trust200902
area: Transport
workgroup: MPTCP Working Group
keyword: Internet-Draft

coding: us-ascii 
stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
  ins: A. Munir
  name: Ali Munir
  organization: Michigan State University
  email: munirali@msu.edu
 -
  ins: Z. Qian
  name: Zhiyun Qian
  organization: University of California, Riverside
  email: zhiyunq@cs.ucr.edu
 -
  ins: Z. Shafiq
  name: Zubair Shafiq
  organization: University of Iowa
  email: zubair-shafiq@uiowa.edu
 -
  ins: A. Liu
  name: Alex Liu
  organization: Michigan State University
  email: alexliu@cse.msu.edu
 -
  ins: F. Le
  name: Franck Le
  organization: IBM T. J. Watson Research Center
  email: fle@us.ibm.com



normative:
  RFC6824:
  ICNP2017:
    title: Multipath TCP Traffic Diversion Attacks and Countermeasures
    author:
      - ins: A. Munir
      - ins: Z. Qian
      - ins: Z. Shafiq
      - ins: A. Liu 
      - ins: F. Le
    seriesinfo: Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Network Protocols
    date: Oct. 2017

informative:
  RFC6182:

                   
--- abstract

This document discusses a security flaw that allows a MITM attacker on a single path to divert
all traffic to its own path, effectively hijacking the entire MPTCP connection. An associated but less severe 
problem is that the attacker can offload its traffic 

--- middle

# Introduction  {#intro}

MPTCP supports using subflows as backup – i.e., using a
subflow to send data only if there is no other subflow
available. Specifically, an MPTCP host can send a request to the other
host to set any subflow as a backup by using the MPTCP MP_PRIO
option. Hosts can request change in the priority to use a
subflow as regular or backup.  To set a subflow as
backup, a host can request a change in the subflow priority by
sending MPTCP MP_PRIO option to the other host with the corresponding
address identifier. The key property of MP_PRIO messages is that they
can be sent on any subflow (see last paragraph of section 3.3.8 of {{RFC6824}}). 
The reason is that if a subflow is already congested (e.g., out of radio coverage), 
no message (including MP_PRIO) can be delivered on the subflow itself. 
After receiving such a control packet,
the sender will stop sending data and the corresponding subflow’s throughput will drop to zero.

Unfortunately, unlike MP_JOIN, such a MP_PRIO option has no
authentication required by the specification whatsoever, allowing an
attacker controlling only one path to set any subflow as backup
and launch traffic divergence and connection hijack attacks. The
backup flag vulnerability allows an attacker to divert traffic among
MPTCP subflows. An attacker can offload traffic from the
eavesdropped subflow to other MPTCP subflows by sending
forged packets with the MP_PRIO option to set the eavesdropped
subflow as a backup. An attacker can also onload traffic from
non-eavesdropped subflows to the eavesdropped subflow by
sending forged packets with the MP_PRIO option to set all other
subflows as backup. This attack is similar to connection hijack
attack, where an attacker diverts all the traffic to pass through the
subflow on the eavesdropped path.

# Connection Hijack Attack and Security Scope of MPTCP

To hijack traffic from all subflows to the one eavesdropped by the attacker,
an attacker only needs to know the address identifier of the host, 
which can be easily guessed as they are set incrementally in the current Linux
implementation of MPTCP. Even if it is randomized, since the identifier has only 8 bits, 
it can even be brute forced. Assuming host A and B are communicating with two subflows (and only one is eavesdropped),
to set a non-eavesdropped subflow as backup, an attacker can request a change in the
subflow priority by sending MPTCP MP_PRIO option to host B with
the address identifier of host A. 
Note that a backup MPTCP subflow may still be used
for data transmission later, which can be detected by the attacker by
observing the overall MPTCP throughput {{ICNP2017}} --- whether global sequence numbers
and the local sequence numbers are progressing at the same rate.

Effectively, this attack degrades an MPTCP connection to a regular TCP
connection as all traffic will be routed through the
attacker-controlled path. 
As discussed in {{RFC6182}}, MPTCP's design is to provide a security model no worse than TCP.
This vulnerability makes MPTCP less secure than TCP, because the entire MPTCP connection can be
compromised (fully controlled by an attacker) as long as ANY one of
the communication paths is compromised. In other words, MPTCP now has an increased attack surface 
which makes it more likely to be completely controlled by an attacker compared to TCP.


# Removal of Address_ID in MP_PRIO messages

We discuss several solutions in a forthcoming paper {{ICNP2017}}, but a
simple approach to cope with this attack would be to reconsider the
utilisation of the address identifier in the MP_PRIO option. This
option allows a host to set/change the priority of all the subflows
associated to a given address identifier on another subflow. It could
have use cases, such as sending MP_PRIO over a WiFi subflow to put the
cellular subflow in backup mode without sending a packet over the
cellular interface or setting the cellular subflow as backup when no radio coverage is detected, 
but these look like edge cases. 
If the MP_PRIO option does not include an address identifier, then it becomes impossible for
an attacker who is on-path of a given subflow to change the priority
of the other subflows.






